All right, next up, and we're gonna
just do another small-scale pass
here where we're just focusing
in on a subpart of the app.
We'll focus on the same subpart,
just like the utilities folder.
This is where we're gonna start
to apply ESLint rules and
crank up the strictness
from that standpoint.
And it's a combination of TSConfig and
ESLint.
So we'll enable strictNullChecks,
exactOptionalPropertyTypes in TSConfig,
and then we'll enable this ESLint rule.
And the new thing we're learning here is,
we already know how to
focus a set of compiler flags
on a folder in a project, right?
We put a new TSConfig in there,
and then we can run tsc -P and
point to the folder and
it'll just compile that.
We did that with no implicit any, right?
We just did that on the utils folder.
We'll do the same thing here,
it's a little different.
But this is another great skill to
have where you can sort of tighten
up strictness locally, and
then hold your ground, right?
You can get it into a state you want it
to be in, and that's the new baseline.
Those are the new rules for
that part of the project.
All right, let's get started.
Let's first make the compiler
setting changes.
So strictNullChecks and
exactOptionalPropertyTypes.
So we're gonna go back to our TSConfig
file in the utils folder, here it is.
strictOptional,
exactOptionalPropertyTypes,
there it is, true.
And then the other flag
is strictNullChecks.
True, so we already know how this works.
We're gonna run tsc -P, point to this
folder, and it'll tell us what's up.
Nothing, we got by clean this time.
There's nothing,
we weren't able to turn these flags on.
And through what we've done already today,
we may have addressed all of the things
that could have made this fail.
So let's focus on the ESLint side.
I'm just gonna grab the name
of this ESLint rule.
And we're gonna go to
our outer ESLint config.
So this is a little bit different.
It does not involve us having to create
a different config file for this folder.
And that is because ESLint gives us this
overrides array, starts up here, right?
Look at how many lines of
config we have inherited.
Override is where a lot of
important stuff happens.
And the idea behind overrides is
you specify some set of files or
folders, you can use globs here, right?
And you can define rule sets
that are used for those files.
You can enable or
disable certain rules that happen here.
And so, we're just gonna create
a new override for the utils,
like source/utils, and
we'll add this one rule to it.
And we'll be able to run yarn lint,
it'll just treat that folder
in a more strict way.
You just add it right at the top.
So it's a new object,
and we could say files.
And we'll say its source/utils/**.ts,
yeah, that's great, something like that.
You could even have a little
set of braces here to say tsx,
mts, cts, any kind of TypeScript file.
A React TypeScript file,
a common JS TypeScript file,
a native ES module TypeScript file,
this should apply to all of those.
And then we're gonna say rules.
Strict-boolean-expressions, and
we'll say error.
Generally, I think there are a variety
of different things you can use for
what you put over here.
I tend to use error, warn, and off.
I think you can use numbers as well,
like 2, 1, and 0, but
this is how I tend to do it,
more readable.
Okay, let's run yarn lint and
see what happens.
We got a couple errors, or a couple lint
violations, two problems in one file.
So let's check it out, what's up here?
This rule requires strictNullChecks
compiler option to be turned on in order
to function properly.
Hmm, let's bump ESLint and TypeScript.
Hey, it's better now.
Don't forget to try that first.
I've chased my tail so many times just
to realize that turning it off and
on again caused something
to pick up new state here.
So, great, we do have TSConfig
with strictNullChecks turned on.
ESLint, in fact, is gonna check
to make sure that requirement,
which is necessary for
this rule we just started to use.
It's gonna make sure that
the TSConfig lines up for
where we have that rule scoped.
They're both on the utils folder,
so we're okay.
But it would bug you if you sort of
cast a wide net with the rule, but
strictNullChecks is only enabled for
a couple files.
It will tell you about that.
Okay, unexpected nullable
string value in a conditional,
please handle the nullish and empty cases.
And it's reminding me that this
is a nullable thing, right?
It could be undefined, and
I can handle that this way.
Instead of using or
to express my default here,
I can use nullish coalescing,
question mark, question mark.
Down here, This is an unknown,
error is an unknown, we typed it as such.
And it's saying, we need a comparison,
or we need a typecast of some sort.
So what should we do here?
It's another trick question.
We have some options.
I mean, at this point,
we kind of just wanna serialize it,
we wanna coerce it to a string,
whatever it is.
Cuz we've already checked to see
if it's an instance of Error.
We have to return, the whole point of
this is to return some stringish value.
We cast it to any,
that's not gonna be great.
How about that?
Not new,
pass it through the String constructor.
We solved this problem,
by the way, earlier in the course.
Cuz this is one of those functions
that's in our little library.
We're gonna switch and
start depending on that library in just
two chapters from now, right near the end.
Okay, so I think that's it,
I think we should be good.
yarn lint should return
no errors at this point.
So that's an example of us being
able to focus linting in and
to be more strict on a couple files or
a couple folders.
And I think this is even
better than TypeScript,
cuz imagine we started to take
on the data folder, right?
We could just add it to this files array,
source/data/something.
We don't need to have all these
TSConfigs floating around.
We could just kind of do it that way.
You could do that with
TSConfig as well by saying,
I include a bunch of different stuff,
but it's not as nice as this.
You don't have as much
fine-grained control over like,
disable this one little thing, right?